Part 1:

1a) Take a bunch of mugshots (say 10), different expressions etc.. Model the image as a single column vector; 
and compute the Euclidean distance between the images. Display these distances in an appropriate format.

1b) Calculate the mean, and the standard-deviation at each pixel. Display the mean and standard deviation images.

1c) Next implement a function to calculate the Penrose distance between images. Calculate the Penrose distance of 
each mugshot image to the mean and to each other. Display these distances in an appropriate format.

1d) Then, take a bunch of random non-face images (eg. chair, table, book, tree etc.) and compute the Penrose 
distance again of each of these to the mean face image using the statistics of the set of face images and 
present these distances....how do these distances compare to the distances between the face images? Is this 
distance function capturing the notion of "close" and "far" in this set as expected i.e could this distance 
function be used to classify whether an image is a face (distance to mean face is small) or a non-face 
(distance to mean face is large)?

 

Part 2: Take a simple image, for example, a rect function in the middle of a square, and compute the FFT using 
Matlab FFT2 function and display it, before and after log transformation. Interpret the FFT - ie comment 
on what the spectrum of a rect function should ideally look like, and whether this is observed, where the low 
frequency components are, where the high frequency components are, what is the DC value of the image etc.. 
Display the spectrum of one of your mugshot images, after log transformation. 

 

Deliverables:

 

As before.

You are required to take your own pictures with your own device.

Need to see well-structured codes with nice indentations and generous comments - the code should "look good" 
in addition to working correctly. The TA should be able to run these codes easily, and generate all images 
in the report with one function call.

 

The report you generate should be comprehensive, and layout all the assumptions you have made, if any, and 
potential impact of those assumptions on the results. Note that I am moving away from prescriptive detailed 
instructions and increasingly leaving more and more choices for you to make. This is the real world setting 
where you will be making these decisions on your own, and this is your chance to think of how these decisions 
will impact the communication of the message, in addition to the message itself.